# badi

https://badi.hrabcak.eu/ 


Information protection is an integral part of the communication in a modern society. Sharing sensitive data on social networks, easy to use services, increasingly sophisticated threats and vulnerabilities, increasing number of digital identities in e-commerce and digital banking and unmanaged global digitization during pandemics require active approach to data protection and research new options to minimize the impact of security incidents. The thesis describes security aspects in communication between the consumer and service provider during authentication and proposes procedures that can describe these factors, categorize, measure and evaluate their impact on authentication.
The output of work is an application that suggests an optimal form of authentication based on the user's inputs. Required input data are: Type of classified data (public data, internal data, data protected, strictly protected data, non-classified data); Application architecture (1-layer, 2-layer, etc.); Type of authentication protocol (MTSL, LDAP, NTLM, RADIUS, ...) or authentication framework (Kerberos / OAuth / SAML / OIDC); Location of consumer and provider (local network, cloud storage); Requested authentication factors (1FA, 2FA, 3FA, MFA), Requirement for digital signing or integrity control (RSA, HMAC, OTP, HASH), Requested encryption (RSA, ECC, AES, DEC, 3DES) and Requested application role (an anonymous user, standard user, administrator, ...).
Keywords: Informatics. Digital identity. CyberSecurity. Authentication. Authentication protocol. Security aspects.
